<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Introduction</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="introduction" epub:type="introduction">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Introduction</h2>
			<section id="life-and-works" epub:type="introduction">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">Parkman’s Life and Works</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>Francis Parkman was born in Boston, September 16, 1823. His Puritan ancestry included several ministers, with such Old Testament names as Elias and Ebenezer, and a prosperous Yankee merchant, from whom Parkman’s father, the pastor of the New North Church in Boston, inherited a comfortable fortune. When Francis was eight years old, he was sent to his grandfather’s home at Medford, a few miles from Boston, to gain strength and health. “Here,” he tells us, “I learned very little, and spent the intervals of schooling more profitably in collecting eggs, insects and reptiles, trapping squirrels and woodchucks, and making persistent, though rarely fortunate, attempts to kill birds with arrows.”</p>
				<p>At twelve he returned to the city and entered the Chauncey Hall School, where he was trained to use clear, direct English and to memorize the best poetry. After school hours he and his boy friends converted the barn-loft into the “Star Theatre,” where they rehearsed plays, devised costumes, and prepared handbills announcing their performances, which were often “concluded with some interesting experiments in chemistry by <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Parkman.” More frequently, however, he might have been found reveling in the pages of Scott or following Cooper’s favorite Leatherstocking into the haunts of the Indian. Indeed, he became “so identified with the novelist’s red heroes,” says one of his friends, “that he dreamed of them, talked of them more than anything else, and emulated them in woodcraft.”</p>
				<p>We are not surprised, therefore, that soon after entering Harvard College, in 1840, Parkman determined to write a history of the wars that ended in the conquest of Canada, for here, he declared, “the forest drama was more stirring and the forest stage more thronged with appropriate figures than in any other passage of our history.” To this task Parkman gradually gave all the powers of his restless, untiring nature, which found labor a passion and rest intolerable; and though he finished his college course with credit and even entered the Harvard Law School, his reading and study, his play and travel were alike directed to prepare him for his task. Whatever Parkman undertook he did with all his might; consequently five o’clock of a winter morning often found him in a cold room poring by candle light over some musty record of the days of Montcalm and Wolf. He read a whole library of American and French history and crowded with memoranda his little green notebooks. He studied the style and methods of the master historians, filled reams of paper with character sketches, and strove to learn to write “so men would like to read him.”</p>
				<p>To this lore of books he added a knowledge of woodcraft. During the summer vacations he wrangled the woods of northern New York, New England, and Canada, paddled down the streams Champlain had explored, strode along the old war paths of the red men, and shared the rough life of the hunter and trapper, the boatman and the Indian. Thus he was ever busy preparing for his task and even when an accident in the Harvard gymnasium forced him to go abroad in 1843, he spent some time in a convent, that he might be better fitted to write of the Canadian Jesuit missionaries.</p>
				<p>In this same quest for materials Parkman planned the trip described in <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Oregon Trail</i>. The eastern Indians he knew well; but they had been debased by their contact with the whites, and only along the western frontier could he study the nature and habits of the red men in their wild and primitive state. Accompanied by his “cousin and lifelong friend,” Quincy Adams Shaw, he therefore set out for the western plains in the spring of 1846. Here he succeeded in joining a band of savage Dakotas, lived and hunted with them among the hills and valleys of the present state of Wyoming, and returned, as he says, “with a cartload of experiences.”</p>
				<p>Unfortunately, he also brought back a body so shattered by disease that he never knew another day entirely free from pain. “There was too much soul for the body to which it was yoked,” says one of his friends; and Parkman attempted to spur and whip that jaded body to action. His sight was so impaired that for months he was confined to a darkened room; a strange rushing of blood to the head forbade him the continuous use of his mind; and to these afflictions was added lameness. His disease baffled the doctors, who tried everything from a diet of milk to drawing red-hot irons along his spine. But these afflictions, which would have killed an ordinary man, only made Parkman clinch his teeth and fight the harder. While his eyes were bandaged, he dictated to his cousin Shaw the narrative of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Oregon Trail</i>, which appeared serially in <i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">The Knickerbocker Magazine</i> in 1847; and in his darkness he devised the means of guiding his pencil along the pages that recorded <i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">The Conspiracy of Pontiac</i>, the earliest volumes of his great history of the American forest.</p>
				<p>In time “the enemy,” as Parkman called his disease, eased its hold; and in 1850 he was married to Miss Catherine Biglow. In a few years, however, his sky again darkened: the death of his little son, in 1857, was soon followed by that of his wife; and his disease returned with a redoubled fury that threatened his sight, his reason, and his life. Forbidden all literary work, Parkman turned to horticulture and filled his garden at Jamaica Plain, near Boston, with a thousand varieties of roses. He delighted in loading with flowers the arms of the chance passersby, or in exhibiting his lilies, one of which, a new variety he had produced, brought him a thousand dollars. Later the skill and knowledge he then gained brought him a professorship in the Bussey Institute of Harvard College.</p>
				<p>Parkman never wasted a minute allowed him for work and seized the first favorable moment for resuming his history. At times he could write but six lines a day, and even at his best he could never work more than three hours out of twenty-four. But when most men would have shown the white flag, Parkman toiled on⁠—gathering thousands of pages of manuscripts and letters, consulting old newspapers and pamphlets, crossing the ocean time after time to examine French and English public records, and traveling from Quebec to Florida to visit the sites of chief events recorded in his narratives. Gradually the story of the struggle of the French to explore and colonize America took shape in his pages: <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Pioneers of France in the New World</i>, 1865, and <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Jesuits in North America</i>, 1867, where succeeded by <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">La Salle</i>, in 1869, and <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Old Regime in Canada</i>, 1874. Then followed <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Count Frontenac and New France</i>, 1877, and his acknowledged masterpiece, <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Montcalm and Wolf</i>, 1884; finally the series was ended in 1892 with <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">A Half-Century of Conflict</i>. In these pages Parkman shows us Marquette as he first catches sight of the broad Mississippi, the lionhearted La Salle toiling through the snow-clad Michigan forests, Tonty of the iron hand and gallant old Frontenac holding the savages at bay, the black-robed Jesuit Brébeuf tortured at the stake by the Iroquois, and the frail young General Wolf laboring up the rocky steep to meet his death on the Plains of Quebec. We listen to the warwhoop of the Hurons and the answering crack of the white man’s rifle; and we realize that here, indeed, is the vast epic of the American forest.</p>
				<p>The completion of Parkman’s task, which he had planned in his youth and finished after his own “half century of conflict,” was soon followed by his death. He passed away at his home in Jamaica Plain, November 8, 1893, and was buried at <abbr>Mt.</abbr> Auburn Cemetery, where he rests near Agassiz and Holmes, Lowell and Longfellow. The memory of his brave and fruitful life will long endure.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="oregon-trail" epub:type="introduction">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">The Oregon Trail</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>On the maps which Parkman consulted in planning his trip in 1846 that spacious tract lying west of the bend of the Missouri and east of the Rocky Mountains, and extending from Canada to Texas, was designated as “The Great American Desert.” Such was the ignorance of this region even among those who should have been better informed. This great plain, in which have since been developed a half dozen productive and prosperous states, busy with mill and farm and ranch, was then one vast, unbroken Indian territory. To the south extended Texas, which had lately won its freedom from Mexico, but which had not as yet added its star to our flag. To the west and southwest lay California and New Mexico, ruled by their last Mexican governors; while to the north of California stretched that vast, undefined territory called the Oregon country.</p>
				<p>Among the Indian tribes which then occupied the basin of the Missouri, some were native to the region, and others had been driven thither by the whites. Thus the Delawares, whose forefathers had granted a home to William Penn, were forced to accept a strip of territory along the north bank of the Kansas, near the Missouri. To their north were Shawnees, who had been pushed on through Ohio and Missouri and were gradually adopting the customs of the whites and growing prosperous. Still farther north had been colonized the Kickapoos, an Illinois tribe; and near them their kinsmen, the Potawatomies, led a wretched, squalid life.</p>
				<p>Of the tribes native to the region, the Pawnees, who dwelt chiefly in the present state of Nebraska, were the most formidable and treacherous. They bore a deadly hatred towards the great nation of the Dakotas, who held the buffalo ranges to the north and west of them, and who were commonly regarded as the most powerful of the Plains Indians. One of these Dakota tribes was the Oglalas, or wanderers, with whom Parkman lived and hunted. At that time they were planning to take the warpath against their fierce and crafty enemies, the Crows, who claimed what is now Northern Wyoming. Among the other neighbors of the Dakotas were the Cheyennes, rich in horses, who frequented the Black Hills; and their long-haired friends and cousins dwelling in Eastern Colorado, the Arapahoes, or dog-eaters, who were shrewd traders and, according to Parkman, arrant thieves. In these respects they resembled those Arabs of the plains along Arkansas, the Comanches, who ranked an expert horse thief above a dashing warrior, and who were, perhaps, “the most daring riders in the world.” For years they and their allies, the Kiowas, were the terror of travelers across the southern plains; and Parkman was indeed fortunate to pass along their borders and escape with his scalp.</p>
				<p>The first white men to pierce this region were the explorers and missionaries, the trappers and hunters. Most of these trappers and hunters were lighthearted French Canadians, or dark Creoles from the old Louisiana settlements, or spare, gaunt, restless Yankees. In their quest for the buffalo and the beaver they traced every western stream to its source, discovered the easiest and best trails, and prepared the way for the government explorers and the immigrants. In their boats of buffalo hide they brought down their furs and skins to the forts and posts of the American Fur Company, which practically monopolized the early trade in the basin of the Missouri. At these posts these long-haired hermits of the plains and mountains drank and gambled away their year’s earnings and then fitted out on credit for another season of toil, gathering buffalo robes among the Indians of the plains, or threading the beaver streams in the heart of the Rockies.</p>
				<p>Some of these mountain men marched with the Lewis and Clark expedition in 1804⁠–⁠1806 to the mouth of the Columbia, where, a few years later, the American Fur Company made that brave but fruitless effort to establish a trading post, which forms the theme of Irving’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Astoria</i>. After the War of 1812 Great Britain and the United States agreed that this Oregon country should be open for ten years to the citizens of either nation, and twice they renewed their treaty. Gradually, however, the rivalry between these two nations for this home of the beaver and the salmon, this land of promise for the immigrant, grew keener and fiercer. About 1832 a train of wagons first crossed the Continental Divide to the basin of the Columbia; and before 1840 the Oregon Trail was well established.</p>
				<p>The immigrants following this great artery of national life usually started from Independence, near the site of the present Kansas City, or, less frequently, from Fort Leavenworth or <abbr>St.</abbr> Joseph. Striking off to the northwest till they reached the southernmost bend of the Platte river, in the present state of Nebraska, they followed that stream for more than six hundred miles to one of its sources in Wyoming, near that famous gateway to the Rockies called South Pass. Here they crossed to the Pacific slope, and, pursuing their hard journey across Idaho to the tributaries of the Columbia, finally made their way down its valley.</p>
				<p>In 1840, when the question of the northwestern boundary became a grave international issue, the zeal to win this country for the Stars and Stripes burned brightly. In 1845 three thousand immigrants passed over the Oregon Trail; and in 1847 that number was nearly doubled. Many of those who braved this long and perilous journey were prompted by the appeal to patriotism or, less frequently, by missionary zeal; others were lured by the call of the wilderness or by the prospect of free and fertile land. Whatever their motives, however, these immigrants were essentially home seekers and carried in their great white-covered wagons chairs and tables, ploughs and seeds, Bibles and school books. Fastened at the backs of the wagons were well-filled chicken coops or the halter ropes of favorite milch cows. Little brown-faced, calico-clad girls and small boys in blue jeans rode astride some faithful old horse, while their mother sat on the wagon seat knitting stockings, and their father walked beside the slow, strong ox teams. Frequently these caravans halted for a few days while the men shod the footsore oxen, and the women baked bread and washed the soiled clothing; and the long weeks were marked by courtships and marriages, births and deaths, quarrels and occasional crimes.</p>
				<p>This tide of immigration was near its height when Parkman journeyed to the west. In June, 1846, when he was at Fort Laramie, Great Britain and the United States signed a treaty fixing the boundary of the Oregon country at the forty-ninth parallel. Two years later the startling news of the discovery of gold in California thronged the Trail with thousands and thousands of eager prospectors; and again, in 1858, the Colorado gold craze crowded this wide-furrowed highway with wagons bearing the slogan, “Pike’s Peak or Bust.” Finally, in 1868, the railway placed its iron band across the continent.</p>
				<p>Parkman journeyed along this Oregon Trail for some six or seven hundred miles⁠—about one-third of its length; then, as he sought adventure and not immigration, he turned south, and traveling along the foothills of the Colorado Rockies till he reached that great highway of the southern plains, the Santa Fe Trail, followed it back to civilization. The Oregon Trail, as we have just seen, was the path of the immigrant; the Santa Fe was the track of the trader. The former extended practically two thousand miles and involved a journey of four or five months; while the latter, with its seven hundred miles, was usually traversed in six or seven weeks.</p>
				<p>Starting alike from Independence, the two routes coincided for the first two days’ journey west of the Missouri; then the Santa Fe Trail branched to the southwest. Near the present Fort Dodge, Kansas, it divided, one road following the Arkansas River up to Fort Bent, Colorado, and thence south to Las Vegas, and finally to Santa Fe; while the other branch crossed the Arkansas and bore directly to Las Vegas. In 1822 the first large caravan brought its calicos and linens, its sugar, coffee, and hardware to the New Mexican capital and returned safely with furs and wool, horses and mules, sacks of gold and bars of silver. But even when the annual commerce had swelled to four or five hundred wagons, as in Parkman’s time, the Indians were so dangerous that the troops often escorted the caravan to the international borders on the Arkansas; and the traders regularly organized with a captain and subalterns, set guards at night, and formed, with their huge black wagons, a corral for their hundreds of horses, mules, and oxen. As a recompense for these dangers and hardships, however, the traders looked forward to heavy purses and to a season of dancing and gambling, bull baiting and cock fighting, within the white adobe walls of Santa Fe.</p>
				<p>During the Mexican War this trail became a great military highway. Parkman was already on the plains when war was declared, May 13, 1846; and on his return met along the trail detachments of General Kearny’s army, marching from Fort Leavenworth, on the Missouri, to Bent’s Fort, on the upper Arkansas, whence they proceeded against Santa Fe, Northern Mexico, and California. After Santa Fe had come under the Stars and Stripes, this commerce of the prairies grew by leaps and bounds, reaching its height about 1860. But the prairie schooner and stagecoach were doomed by the locomotive; in 1872 the railway was completed; and today only a few ruts remain to mark this famous trail of the trader.</p>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
